LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Ready? Okay.
Jane the virgin
was accidentally
artificially inseminated,
and she had baby Mateo.
But he was kidnapped
and then traded
for this flash drive.
Luckily, Jane and Rafael
got him back.
And they would have lived
happily ever after,
except she chose to be
with Michael. Only problem?
You turned me in!
Stop!
But it turns out,
Michael was right.
You paid me to lie to
the cops about Cordero.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Rafael did rat him out.
Unfortunately, it was too late.
Michael had moved on.
Oh, and her baby daddy,
Rafael, well,
his life was complicated, too.
See, his other baby mama,
Petra, was in a bit of a jam.
He mother killed someone
and then blamed her.
Talk about
dysfunctional family, right?
Well, how about this?
Rafael's mom abandoned him
when he was four.
Oh, and his half-sister, Luisa,
well, her mom was
a criminal mastermind
called Mutter,
and her signature
was blue silk ties.
And Detective Michael was
on the hunt for her,
along with Susanna,
who Luisa kind of liked.
As in, like-liked.
Oh, and speaking of romance,
Michael returned
Jane's tree topper.
So maybe there was hope
for them after all.
I guess we'll see.
It is a truth
universally acknowledged
that Jane Gloriana Villanueva
loved school.
(whistle blows)
However, she didn't love
all of school.
Specifically second grade
gym class.
Because of Tommy Boxer.
Yes!
Fortunately, Jane's abuela
gave her the tools to deal
with boys like that.
Tommy?
I know what's going on here.
You're extra mean to me
because you like me.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Ah, yes, that old chestnut.
And just so you know,
that is not the way
to get me to like you.
I respond to kindness.
Your grandma's wrong.
I'm mean 'cause of math class.
You're only cheating yourself,
you know.
(sighs)
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR: Yeah,
Jane didn't see that coming.
(grunts)
Or that.
(knocking)
Hey.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Or this.
Hey.
So, listen,
you're probably wondering
I wanted to reach out
and thank you
for the tree topper.
why I left the tree topper.
(chuckles)
I want you to know
that you were right,
uh, about Rafael turning you in.
Yeah, I know.
But I get it. He was
looking out for his family.
Anyway, we talked.
He and I are all good now.
And I was hoping
maybe you and I could...
maybe be good.
Really?
Really.
(Mateo crying)
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
No, Mateo, not again.
Mateo.
Come on.
Not again.
Oh, it's 2:37 a.m.
This sleep regression
has got to end, baby.
Okay?
Shh.
Try to go to sleep.
Yeah?
Yeah? Oh.
(Mateo crying)
(door opens)
XIOMARA: Jane, come on.
Rogelio's mom comes tomorrow,
and I cannot face that woman
on less than eight hours
of sleep.
I'm trying, obviously.
I'm not comfortable with that.
Wait.
He's getting sleepy.
Oh, buddy.
Yeah, buddy, oh.
(whispering):
Okay.
(crying)
(Jane yawns)
I want you both to know
that I am on it.
When Mateo woke up at 4:30,
I researched some very gentle
sleep training methods.
No.
For you, but there are other
well-researched methods.
His lovey.
I'm supposed to wear it
in my bra
so that he can smell me
and feel like
I'm with him
throughout the night.
(sighs)
And your opinion is noted.
(kisses)
Hmm.
Hon, can you maybe not eat?
Liliana will be
here any minute.
Mom, you need
to just relax.
Remember, Dad said
that Grandma
was much more chill
when she's with Grandpa.
Ay, shh, shh...
Whoa.
Hello, everyone.
Glamma is here.
(squeals)
Jane, you look
adorable and darling.
And, Alba, so good to see you.
(kisses)
Hello, Xiomara.
Liliana.
Where's Grandpa?
Well, it turns out that
he was not well enough
to travel after all.
It's, it's a shame.
Aw, I was really
excited to meet him.
I know, I know.
But, uh, you know,
better safe than sorry.
(Mateo crying)
Can I get him?
I could use a pinch
of happiness
in my current state.
Mm-hmm.
Thank you.
Oh.
What's going on
with your mother?
I have no idea.
She was like that
the whole car ride down.
Happy, then sad.
She wouldn't even duet
to "Endless Love."
Did you ask her?
Of course I did.
Over and over.
I even sang her part.
JANE:
Poor Grandma.
Let me go check on Mateo
and see if maybe
she'll talk to me.
He's adorable.
Thanks.
A little less adorable
when he wakes up every hour.
Ah.
So, Glamma,
is everything okay with you?
Oh, yes.
Yes, I'm-I'm just a little...
overwhelmed seeing
my beautiful great-grandson.
Okay.
Just seems like maybe
there's something else.
And if there is,
you can tell me.
Okay.
Your grandfather is gay.
And he has left me.
For a man.
Oh, wow. Wow.
Wow. (chuckles)
Oh, wow.
You are so right.
I feel so much better.
(laughs)
Good, good.
Now, listen, you cannot
tell anybody.
And you can especially
not tell your father,
because I know how much
he idealized our marriage.
And when he finds out
that it was all a lie,
he is going to be so devastated.
Jane?
Uh-huh?
I can trust you, yes?
(grunts softly)
No big deal.
Yeah, it was just, like,
you know,
terrible food on the airplane
and they charge for it now.
So it's so annoying.
Oh, okay.
Well, I'll just send a series
of irate tweets to the airline.
They're gonna respond with
a flight voucher or something.
Thank you, Jane.
No problem.
Okay, I'm gonna go shower,
because I got to go teach.
Thank you guys
for watching Mateo.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Okay, from one mama drama
to another.
WOMAN: There's security footage
of you wheeling Ivan
out of the hotel.
I was helping my mother.
The murder weapon
has Ivan's blood
on it and your fingerprints.
Yeah, but this isn't
the murder weapon.
The murder weapon
was my mother's hook.
WOMAN: Well, no one knows
where that is.
'Cause she had that one removed
last month.
It could be at
the bottom of the ocean.
And without it,
the case comes down
to your word against hers.
My mother is a convicted felon.
She also came forward--
you didn't.
RAFAEL:
Okay.
Okay, so what
happens next?
(muffled):
Because Petra obviously
didn't do this.
(muffled):
Indictment is likely.
Self-defense.
It's 15 years to life.
Without the
murder weapon...
Petra.
Yeah, sorry.
What were you saying?
That you will be indicted
unless you can get
your mother to confess.
We're gonna figure
this out, okay?
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Also nervous...
Jane.
Not indicted-for-murder
nervous,
more like first-day-as-
a-teacher's-assistant nervous.
(whispering):
Okay.
(door opens)
Oh, hi.
(indistinct chatter)
Welcome. (chuckles)
Wow, there's lots
of tall people here.
Whoa.
Hmm, okay.
Welcome to Great Books 105.
I am Jane Villanueva,
your section leader.
And I can promise you
that the course name d... Oh.
Hi.
I was just... (clears throat)
I can promise you that
the course name doesn't lie.
These are great books.
Okay, so I hope you all enjoyed
Pride and Prejudice
over your break.
I know I loved rereading it.
We'll start
with the immortal line,
"It is a truth
universally acknowledged
"that a single man
in possession of a good fortune
must be in want of a wife."
Can anyone unpack that?
(sighs)
Okay, I'm gonna steer a little.
Uh, thoughts on how it frames
the marriage plot narrative
in satirical, rather than
straightforward, terms?
You.
Any thoughts on the quote?
Uh...
I haven't gotten to that part
of the book yet.
(chuckles)
It's the first line.
(laughter)
Did you read the book?
Uh, dude.
What's up with the teacher?
Books for Ballers
is supposed to be easy.
Excuse me.
What did you call this class?
Uh, Books for Ballers.
"Books for..."
STUDENT:
If you're actually gonna make us
read all these books,
can you at least explain
how to drop the class first?
(laughter)
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Yeah, so it's a truth
universally acknowledged
that Jane did not see
that coming.
Wow, and they got a shot off.
What a game.
Wow.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
I'm confused.
Who are these people,
and what have they done
with the Villanuevas?
Okay, cool. This is exciting.
Right? I mean, one point
right before the buzzer.
Well, way to be supportive.
I'm trying to connect
with my students here, Abuela.
Stop. Please.
Okay, well, I'm not
doing that, so, enough.
(sighs)
(phone chimes)
(indistinct conversation)
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Don't look at me.
I have no idea
who she is, either.
*
This makes no sense.
These therapy transcripts
are just the ramblings
of a mentally ill woman.
Well, if Mia was gonna
hide out in an institution,
she's got to make it
look real.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
To give you a refresher...
(bell dings twice)
(scoffs) Well, she
did a good job.
I mean, listen to this:
"Mia likes mint chip ice cream.
"She dreams of vacationing
by a magical lake.
Collects Hummel figurines."
Well, it doesn't mean
anything to us.
But... it might mean something
to your girlfriend.
Oh, shut up.
But, yeah, we're gonna
have to talk to Luisa.
Heads or tails?
Heads.
You gonna wear something sexy?
It's gonna be so awkward.
LATIN LOVE NARRATOR: Well, at
least not as awkward as this.
LILIANA: When Manuel
was touching me,
and we were making love,
is-is he thinking about
another man the whole time?
You know?
Yeah, I do.
XIOMARA:
Oh.
Hey there.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Uh-oh. Did she hear that?
I-I think your Uber's
waiting outside, Liliana.
Thank you very much.
Okay, I will, uh...
I will see all of you tomorrow.
So, where are those Cubanos?
I think I might've
found something out.
You heard?
You know?
She told me this morning.
She who?
Wait, what did you find out?
I think Michael
has a girlfriend.
He does?
I don't know.
I saw him talking to someone
and they looked like a couple.
I know because of the tree
topper, you thought maybe...
Yeah, no, uh...
It's good to know.
Or maybe know.
So, wait, what were
you talking about?
Yeah, no, same thing.
Jane...
Okay, but you have to swear
not to tell anybody.
I swear!
Manuel is gay.
What...?
And he's leaving Liliana
for a man,
and she doesn't want anybody
to know, especially Rogelio.
Well, why doesn't she want
to tell Rogelio?
She doesn't think
he can handle it.
Of course he can.
No kidding. That's what I said.
(Mateo fusses)
Okay, Mr. Sweetface...
you and I are gonna
go take a bath.
You are officially
on the clock,
'cause tonight,
you are sleeping!
I found a great method.
And you took a nice bath.
And you got your
cute jammies on.
And here's your lovey.
Yes. And now I'm
going to rock him
until he's drowsy
but not asleep,
and then I'm going to
put him in his crib.
Yes.
I do this now, and then,
every time he wakes up,
I give him
a little less comfort,
so by the end of the night,
all he needs is a pat
to go to sleep.
You see?
(Mateo crying)
Good evening, folks,
I'm John Salley.
And I'm Lee Reherman.
And welcome to
Sleep Tonight.
And tonight, Team Villanueva
is going to attempt
gentle sleep learning.
Oh...
Okay...
LEE: So it's early in
the first quarter, John.
And it looks like
she's going to go
with the kissing
and rocking combo.
Let's see if it works.
All right.
(Mateo crying)
Okay... okay...
(crying continues)
You see here, Lee?
Villanueva has the lovey
placed just so.
Now she slides
a pacifier in.
LEE: Oh, that's
straight butter!
Now she's patting
his back gently.
Do not count Villanueva out.
No way.
(door creaks)
(Mateo cries)
And a typical
rookie mistake, John!
I'm with Alba on this one.
She's got the experience
and the know-how.
(Mateo crying)
We are definitely going
into overtime tonight.
(yawns)
PETRA:
How do you sleep at night?
Sleeping pills.
I have a prescription.
I'm serious.
Because I am a survivor, Petra.
And I raise you to be one, too.
Which is why you
will get through this.
I promise.
Mother, stop!
I can't go to jail
for something I didn't do!
You know what really
happened that night.
I walked in.
You were standing over
Ivan's body.
Your hook was bloody!
And here is what I know.
There is a recorder
hidden somewhere in this room.
So I will speak
loudly enough:
Stop lying, Petra.
Admit what you did.
(door closes)
(yawning loudly)
Okay, new plan.
It's called "gentle,
independent sleep,"
and I watched a whole video
on it last night.
PERKY INSTRUCTOR (on video):
First, we say good night,
and remember, be peppy,
so little Leo knows
that it's going to be okay.
So, you leave him and you
check in in five minutes.
And then you check in
in ten minutes
and then you check in
in 15 minutes
until he falls asleep,
and then he doesn't feel
like you abandoned him.
What do you think?
(gasps) Ma!
I'm sorry, I'm too
exhausted to keep secrets.
She won't say anything.
Mm-mm.
Ay...
Trust me,
I know how difficult this is.
You don't.
If you did, you wouldn't be
asking me these questions
that I don't have
the answer to.
We're just looking
for anything.
And I was only six years old
the last time I saw my mom.
(sighs)
Look, I know
what it feels like
to try to remember
someone.
My father left us
when I was about five.
All my memories of him...
...well, I don't know
if they're real.
Or from pictures...
or from what
my mom told me.
But anything
you can remember...
(sighs)
no matter how small
the detail...
...well, it could help.
Are you trying to use
the fact that I like you
to try and get me
to trust you?
A little bit, yes.
(laughing)
We need to find
your mother, Luisa.
Is there anything
you can remember?
Anything at all?
(groans)
(voice breaking): I remember
that she was beautiful
and... I remember the story
that she used to tell me
about this lake
with magic fish.
A lake?
There's something
in her file
about a magical lake.
"Bioluminescent organisms
in the water
create a glow under
the surface"!
So the magic fish are real?
SUSANNA:
Longbourne Lagoon.
See? A lead!
JANE:
But then Elizabeth Bennet
takes the lead,
outmaneuvering the powerful
Lady Catherine de Bourgh
in the final pages,
and that is why
Pride and Prejudice
is just like the
George Mason-UConn matchup
in the 2006 NCAA tournament--
boom!
(cheering, class bell rings)
Yeah!
Oh, oh, okay!
This was a
good class today, guys!
Don't forget to turn in
your paper on your way out!
(indistinct conversations)
Matt... Matt?
McBaskets?
Your paper?
Oh. Yeah.
I didn't do it.
Big game Saturday.
Any chance you'd cut me
some slack this time?
I'll give you
a one-day extension.
But you have to have it
in my in-box
at the end of the day tomorrow.
Wow.
(laughs nervously)
You're killing me, Prof.
ROGELIO:
My father is dying.
What-what do you mean?
I mean, think about it.
He was too ill to travel.
And I can't even bring him up
to my mother without her
changing the subject.
(door opens, closes)
Clearly, he is dying.
Who is dying?
His dad.
He thinks.
I'm not ready
to lose him.
But I must stay strong.
I have to help my father
achieve everything
on his bucket list.
I have to make sure he gets
to see Bette Midler in concert.
And Wick on Broadway.
He always wanted
to vacation in Mykonos.
A place in Provincetown
might not be feasible,
given my current
budget, but...
Dad...
Manuel is not dying.
He is gay.
And he's leaving
Glamma for a man,
and that's why she's
been acting so weird.
Gay?
Wait...
(snorts)
But... but that's impossible.
Surely there would have
been some sign.
It is true.
Wow.
And he's leaving
my mother.
And why did she tell you all,
and not me?
Well, she didn't tell
all of us, just me.
And, for some reason,
she didn't think that
you could handle it.
What?!
Everybody knows how
gay-friendly I am-- please.
I was on the cover
of Ou magazine
in an issue that also
featured my very suggestive
editorial spread with
Neil Patrick Harris!
(gasps)
I must convince her
of this.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Methinks a plan is afoot.
But first, this plan.
Okay... good night, Mateo.
(Mateo grunts)
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Remember, peppy, Jane.
Show him no fear.
You're gonna do
a great job falling asleep.
Hello, everybody,
and welcome to the Sleeper Bowl!
It is the biggest night
of the sleep training season.
JOHN:
Tonight,
the Villanueva team's strategy
is a modified Cry It Out.
The question is, Lee,
do you think
they can make it work?
Well, they'll have to.
And this first play is crucial.
Jane needs to stay out of
Mateo's room for five minutes.
JOHN: Luckily, she has
a strong defense...
(Mateo crying)
...and a deep bench
to support her.
*
(Mateo wails)
You need a distraction.
Let's look up
Michael's girlfriend.
JANE: Is that her?
XIOMARA:
I think it's her.
You think or you know?
No, I know.
(Mateo crying loudly)
He's okay,
he's okay.
Mm-hmm.
(thump)
What was that?
What?
Oh, my God, let me see...
LEE: Villanueva's been
staying on the sidelines,
letting Mateo
run his own play.
But he's struggling.
(Mateo crying)
Okay, that's enough.
And in the final moments,
there she is, stepping in!
JOHN AND LEE: Oh!
(buzzer sounds)
JOHN: Man, and that will do it
for Villanueva.
Tough loss for this team.
Back to square one, Lee.
ALBA:
Jane.
He wasn't, he hit his head.
What?
Oh, no, no, no,
not Mommy's compu...
(computer dings)
JOHN AND LEE:
Oh!
No!
That's gotta hurt!
Oh, God.
All right, that's for
the blooper reel, Lee.
Let's see it again,
but in slow motion.
*
Put a fork in her.
Carry her off the court.
Jane Villanueva
is done.
You didn't save me any?
Sorry.
Sorry. I'm trying to get it
together to teach.
Stop obsessing.
You canceled it in time.
Unless she gets notifications
on her phone.
In which case she'll see
my name, know I'm his ex,
and think I'm a creepy stalker.
Maybe she's not
his girlfriend.
Maybe they're just friends.
Who cares?
If she's his friend,
she'll warn her friend Michael
that his ex is a creepy stalker.
Either way, Jane Villanueva
equals creepy stalker.
Abuela...
You don't think I know that?
I was actually thinking
that he'd sleep with me a while.
Yeah, just until he gets over
this sleep regression.
Look, I tried
a little crying,
because you said to,
but I can't do it.
Because it's so selfish!
It's for me.
It's so I'm well-rested
and so I can
go to school and teach,
which is also for me.
Don't you think
I should do something for him?
Hon, stop.
You do so much.
I just feel like
I've been choosing myself a lot.
And I feel guilty.
What?
I am plenty tough.
I am!
(phone chimes)
Oh, look. Look at this.
McBaskets made his deadline.
It's probably because
I've been so firm with him.
Hmm.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Great.
Let's have a quick look,
shall we?
Your paper is plagiarized.
What?
Oh, I-I didn't know.
You didn't know
you plagiarized your paper?
From a famous paper,
by the way.
In fact, when I was in college,
I wrote a paper
about this very paper.
Well, I was, like,
inspired by it.
Inspired to copy it?
Okay, fine.
You win.
I'll... I'll take a do-over.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
It should be noted
that on another,
more well-rested day,
Jane might have been inclined
to grant his request.
No. You'll take an "F."
But alas,
this was not that day.
Hey, no way. If you fail me,
I won't be able to play.
Well, you should have
thought about that before.
Are you serious?
MAN:
Yup.
I remember her.
Lived in an old house
by the river.
Kept to herself.
You're sure it's her?
Yup.
Not too many people around here.
When did you
see her last?
They're offering me a plea.
18 months.
I'll be out in 14.
But there is
a 24-hour clock on this offer.
So maybe... maybe I should...
Should just plead guilty
to something you didn't do?
No, absolutely not.
What's my
alternative?
Go to trial?
Risk a long sentence?
I'll find you
a new attorney,
a better attorney.
She's the best.
Not if she's
asking you to plead.
That's ridiculous.
I'm sorry.
I'm just...
This is crazy.
I know.
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
(exhales)
Just a little dizzy.
When was the last time you ate?
Yeah, see, if you have
to think about it,
it's been too long.
What do you want?
For my last meal?
No. For dinner.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Ah, yes... dinner.
And Luca and I met
while I was working
at the Marbella.
It's nice to meet you.
You, too.
I happen to be a huge fan
of Luca... and Byron's.
Nice to meet you, Liliana.
Thank you.
I needed some spiritual guidance
after I broke up with
my partner of 25 years.
Here's some
spiritual guidance.
Enjoy being single.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Wait a minute.
There's something queer
about this dinner.
Oh, good, Ricky Martin
might stop by for dessert.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Ah, I see.
A big gay dinner
to show Liliana
how gay-friendly he is.
So, should we eat?
Allow me, please, Alba.
Dear Heavenly Father,
thank you for making the world
such a beautifully
diverse place,
filled with all kinds of people
who love whoever they want.
Like men who love women,
women who love women,
men who love men...
Oh, no... you told him?
Way to be subtle.
I don't want to be subtle.
I'm sorry, Glamma.
No, don't-don't be mad at Jane.
I thought my dad was sick.
Why didn't you tell me, Mother?
I-I couldn't.
But... no, I don't understand.
Why didn't you tell me?
Because!
Because he promised
not to tell anyone
until I broke the news to you.
And so now,
telling you means that
he tells everyone,
he moves out,
it actually happens,
and my husband of 47 years
is leaving me.
Mother...
I need some air.
I'm sorry.
*
47 years.
All a lie.
I'm sure that's not true.
I feel like a fool.
No.
No, you're not, Mom.
You didn't know.
I mean, none of us did.
I just wish
you told me,
instead of making me stage
a ridiculous dinner
with a random...
Hey, guys.
Thanks for coming.
Real honor.
Are you okay?
Oh, I'm terrified.
I moved in with your father
right out of my parents' house.
I have never been alone.
You're not alone, Mom.
You're not.
I promise.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Aw.
There's nothing like the bond
between mother and child.
(Mateo crying)
You promise?
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Right?
However, sometimes that bond
goes horribly wrong.
Lucky that the one thing
I know how to make
is the one thing
you're really craving.
(phone ringing)
Your mother?
She calls every day now.
I haven't called her back.
I thought you were ready
to hear the whole story.
Why she took $10 million
to walk away from me?
You know, the more
that I think about it,
what could she possibly say?
Well, you don't know.
Right?
Look, at a certain point,
under certain pressures...
I might have
taken money like that.
And I'm not a bad person.
Right?
No. You're not.
Besides, she can't possibly
be as bad as my mom.
You have a point there.
I'm sorry,
do you have to do that?
You're kind of holding
the murder weapon.
Not really. New ones.
These have an "M."
No, it had an "M."
I saw the picture.
Wait.
Are you sure?
Petra, this is new cutlery.
It came in just before
the Christmas party.
After Ivan was killed?
Yes. Definitely.
(Mateo crying)
Definitely?
(phone ringing)
Hello?
Jane, hi.
I'm sorry to bother you
at night.
No, no, no, that's okay,
what's going on?
I was calling about a student
in your class, Mr. McNeil.
I'm hearing he plagiarized.
Oh, uh, yeah.
Was I supposed to report that?
No, no, not at all.
Here's the thing.
I was wondering
if there's any way
he can have a second chance.
Uh... that was
his second chance.
I gave him an extension
and then he plagiarized.
I know.
I agree.
But... this is
a complicated situation.
There's the reality of
university politics to consider.
Excuse me?
Donors like to win
basketball games.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Oh, my God!
This perfectly
encapsulates what's wrong
with higher education--
privileging athletics
and alumni contributions
over academic rigor!
Look, I hate this.
And I'm not asking you
to give McBaskets--
Mr. McNeil-- a free pass.
Just one more shot.
So to speak.
Inspire him to do the paper.
Yeah, okay, I'll try.
He basically wants me to give
the basketball player
a free pass.
Seriously?
Seriously.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God!
Shh!
(quietly cheering)
(laughs)
And it looks
like the Villanuevas
have pulled
the upset of the year!
This one is going down
in the record books.
JANE:
Uh, Matt?
Hey, you talk
to Professor Blake?
I did.
Cool.
Oh, a-and if you want
that "F" removed
so you can play tomorrow,
you're gonna have
to write a new paper... today.
Didn't Professor Blake
tell you to give me a break?
No, he suggested
I give you a break.
Yeah.
You know,
for an English teacher,
I don't really think
you understand nuance.
I'm not doing you any favors
by giving you a free pass.
Actually, you would be
doing me a huge favor by...
Not in the long run.
Come on, no speeches, okay?
I'm not a writer.
I'm never gonna be.
I'm not saying
you have to be a writer.
But you do have skills
that would improve
with a little hard work.
I mean, why won't you even try?
Because who wants
to spend time
doing something
they aren't good at?
I don't see you out there
on the court
playing basketball.
Try me.
You serious?
I make a basket,
you have to sit down
and write the paper.
For real?
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
No, not for real.
Yes, let's do it.
Let's do it.
(muttering)
One basket,
you write the paper.
I'll write you that paper.
Oh!
(players clamoring)
(Jane grunting)
Ooh!
(chuckles)
Traveling.
(horn blaring)
Double dribble.
That's reaching in.
It wasn't that much of a foul!
(grunting)
(groans)
STUDENT:
Take it back!
Come on, teach!
(students clamoring)
Lucky shot.
STUDENT:
Just like that!
(students cheering)
You all right?
Yeah.
I'm good.
Okay.
Let's do it again.
Come on.
Man, I have never seen anyone
as bad at basketball
as you are.
But good effort.
I'm gonna write you that paper.
(grunts)
(students oohing)
(students groan)
Dude, no way
is my paper gonna suck
as much as you do
at basketball.
Let's hope not.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
At last, a victory.
Which Petra could use
right about now.
You did the right thing,
taking the plea.
You'll get out in a year, tops.
Well, actually it's
a different plea,
the one that I took.
One that involves no time.
Because I turned you in.
The murder weapon
arrived at the hotel
after Ivan was killed.
Which means you
falsified evidence.
I'm hoping murder charges
will follow.
Magda Andel, you have
the right to remain silent.
Anything you say
can be used...
Wrong choice.
It should be noted
that these words
will come back to haunt Petra.
But you don't know that yet.
Pretend you don't know that.
It's over.
Thank you.
BOTH:
Oh.
No.
(laughs)
Come here.
(both chuckle)
I feel like I'm waking up
from a bad dream.
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
And speaking of dreams...
Oh, hey.
Hey.
Thanks for the tree top...
Why did you send a friend
request to my girlfriend?
Your girlfriend?
Yeah.
Oh, Michael, I-I'm so sorry.
My mom saw you
at the Cubano truck,
and I was trying
to distract myself
during sleep training,
and Mateo's
little foot hit the keyboard.
I canceled the request.
I'm so, so sorry.
It's just that
when we saw each other...
Yeah, you didn't want
to keep in touch.
But then you left
the tree topper.
Because it meant a lot
to you and your family.
That's why I didn't knock.
You know, it wasn't about us.
Got it.
Coincidentally, a line
from Pride and Prejudice
comes to mind here.
That makes sense.
Look, I'm-I'm finally,
you know, happy again.
And I want you
to be happy, too.
I want you to be... happy.
Again, tough love.
Yeah, thanks.
Which was,
it turned out,
exactly what she needed...
...to move on.
And that night
she slept like a baby.
A fully sleep-trained one,
which, happily, Mateo was!
I'm proud of you, too, Mateo.
Of course, Rogelio didn't
need sleep training.
When he came out,
he knew how to sleep.
He knew how to suckle.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, I got the paper.
McBaskets actually put
some real work into it.
I mean, it's like
a solid C-minus.
(doorbell rings)
I'll get it.
Jane?
Grandpa?
Dad?
Ah.
Mom?
Is that true?
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Oh, dear.
The marriage plot thickens.
ELENA:
The story, right.
When I met your father,
I was 24.
I was new to the country.
I worked in his hotel.
I'd heard rumors
about his wife Mia.
How she was mentally unstable.
And after her death...
LATIN LOVER NARRATOR:
Supposed death.
...your father was devastated.
Somehow, he...
fixated on me.
I was flattered,
overwhelmed.
I got married.
I got pregnant.
All in the first year
in this country.
But he was... controlling.
And away all the time.
So, yes, I...
turned to someone else.
And when he found out,
he threatened to destroy me.
I was afraid.
I was young.
Well, you could've
fought harder.
For me.
I know.
I should have.
But I'm here now.
And I'm hoping
it's not too late.
And for them,
at least, it wasn't.
So, you were right.
Your mother
did love that lake.
When she escaped,
that's where she went.
Apparently,
she had a quiet life.
She died
about eight years ago.
Natural causes.
Preliminary DNA tests
on the body
confirm it.
Which means she couldn't
be Mutter because Mutter's
been active recently.
Well, at least there's that.
But wait.
I can't.
If Mia isn't Mutter,
then who is?
1983.
That's when Mia disappeared.
That's also when
Emilio's company
purchased Bar Lunara,
which we know is Mutter's
money laundering site.
Yeah, but Mia's dead.
She wasn't the one
hiding money there.
Exactly, because someone else
had access to Emilio's company.
Because something else
happened in 1983.
He remarried.
It's her!
Rafael?
RAFAEL:
Found it.
I'll be right there.
Mutter's signature
was blue silk ties.
No.
(grunts)
Where is the
flash drive?
What are you
talking about?
The flash drive
you traded for Mateo.
Who did you give it to?
We gave it to Rose.
No, she doesn't
have it-- who does?
I don't know.
We gave it to her.
Why are you doing this?
What is happening?
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org